DOC: update the MAPIE homepage (#344)
scikit-learn-contrib/MAPIE: README.rst

MAPIE - Model Agnostic Prediction Interval Estimator
====================================================

Quantifying the uncertainties and controlling the risks of ML model predictions is of crucial importance
for developing and deploying reliable artificial intelligence (AI) systems. Uncertainty quantification (UQ)
involves all the stakeholders who develop and use AI models.

> **MAPIE** is an open-source Python library hosted on scikit-learn-contrib project that allows you to:

Reviewer: Maybe we could add links to the places in the documentations where we "wrap your favorite scikit-learn-compatible model".

Author: I will make a proposition.

Author: I try to add a hyperlink in the file.

**MAPIE** has been designed to respect three fundamental pillars:

- Implemented methods are **model and use case agnostic** in order to address all relevant use cases tackled in industry.
- Implemented methods must have **strong theoretical guarantees** on the marginal coverage of the estimated uncertainties
  with as little assumption on the data or the model as possible.
- Implemented methods follow **state-of-the-art trends** that respect programming standards in order to develop trustworthy AI systems.

Importantly, **MAPIE** contributes to the wide diffusion of the attractive **Conformal Prediction** (CP) framework for regression
and classification settings that is model and use case agnostic with mathematical guarantees on the marginal coverages on the prediction sets
with few assumptions (distribution-free and data-exchangeability assumptions) [1-2].

Prediction sets output by **MAPIE** encompass both aleatoric and epistemic uncertainties
and are backed by strong theoretical guarantees using a variety of conformal prediction methods [3-9]
and a variaty of conformal risk control methods [10-12].

> 

Author: I will make a proposition.

> 

Author: I merge them in one code block.

> 🔗 Requirements

Reviewer: Why don't we add something about the predictions set for classification?

Author: I will make a proposition.

MAPIE - Model Agnostic Prediction Interval Estimator
====================================================

**MAPIE** is an open-source Python library for quantifying uncertainties and controlling the risks of machine learning models.
It is a scikit-learn-contrib project that allows you to:

> - easily **compute conformal prediction intervals** (or prediction sets) with controlled (ou guaranteed) marginal coverage rate

Reviewer 2: or instead of ou

> - easily **compute conformal prediction intervals** (or prediction sets) with controlled (ou guaranteed) marginal coverage rate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Easily **compute conformal prediction intervals** (or prediction sets) with controlled (ou guaranteed) marginal coverage rate
```

  for regression [3,4,8], classification (binary and multi-class) [5-7] and time series [9].

> - easily **control risks** of more complex tasks such as multi-label classification,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Easily **control risks** of more complex tasks such as multi-label classification,
```

>   segmentation in computer vision (probabilistic guarantees on recall, precision, ...) [10-12].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  semantic segmentation in computer vision (probabilistic guarantees on recall, precision, ...) [10-12].
```

> - easily **wrap your favorite scikit-learn-compatible model** for the purposes just mentioned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- easily **wrap your favorite scikit-learn-compatible model or any model wrapped with a scikit-learn-compatible class** for the purposes just mentioned.
```

Here's a quick instantiation of MAPIE models for regression and classification problems related to uncertainty quantification
(more details in the Quickstart section):

.. code:: python

    # Uncertainty quantification for regression problem
    from mapie.regression import MapieRegressor
    mapie_regressor = MapieRegressor(estimator=regressor, method='plus', cv=5)

.. code:: python

    # Uncertainty quantification for classification problem
    from mapie.classification import MapieClassifier
    mapie_classifier = MapieClassifier(estimator=classifier, method='score', cv=5)

Implemented methods in **MAPIE** respect three fundamental pillars:

> - they are **model and use case agnostic**, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- They are **model and use case agnostic**, 
```

> - they possess **theoretical guarantees** under minimal assumptions on the data and the model,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- They possess **theoretical guarantees** under minimal assumptions on the data and the model,
```

> - they are based on **peer-reviewed algorithms** and respect programming standards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- They are based on **peer-reviewed algorithms** and respect programming standards.
```

**MAPIE** relies notably on the field of *Conformal Prediction* and *Distribution-Free Inference*.

🔗 Requirements
===============

- **MAPIE** runs on Python 3.7+.

> - **MAPIE** stands on the shoulders of giants. Its only internal dependencies are `scikit-learn <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/>`_ and `numpy=>1.21 <https://numpy.org/>`_.

Reviewer 2: don't we have scipy also now ?

🛠 Installation
===============

**MAPIE** can be installed in different ways:

.. code:: sh

    $ pip install mapie  # installation via `pip`
    $ conda install -c conda-forge mapie  # or via `conda`
    $ pip install git+https://github.com/scikit-learn-contrib/MAPIE  # or directly from the github repository

⚡ Quickstart
=============

Here we propose two basic uncertainty quantification problems for regression and classification tasks with scikit-learn.

As **MAPIE** is compatible with the standard scikit-learn API, you can see that with just these few lines of code:

> - how easy it is **to wrap your favorite scikit-learn-compatible model** around your model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- How easy it is **to wrap your favorite scikit-learn-compatible model** around your model.
```

> - how easy it is **to follow the standard sequential** ``fit`` and ``predict`` process like any scikit-learn estimator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- How easy it is **to follow the standard sequential** ``fit`` and ``predict`` process like any scikit-learn estimator.
```

MAPIE - Model Agnostic Prediction Interval Estimator
====================================================

**MAPIE** is an open-source Python library for quantifying uncertainties and controlling the risks of machine learning models.
It is a scikit-learn-contrib project that allows you to:

- Easily **compute conformal prediction intervals** (or prediction sets) with controlled (or guaranteed) marginal coverage rate
  for regression [3,4,8], classification (binary and multi-class) [5-7] and time series [9].
- Easily **control risks** of more complex tasks such as multi-label classification,
  semantic segmentation in computer vision (probabilistic guarantees on recall, precision, ...) [10-12].

> - Easily **wrap your favorite scikit-learn-compatible model or any model wrapped with a scikit-learn-compatible class**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Easily **wrap any model (scikit-learn, tensorflow, pytorch, ...) with, if needed, a scikit-learn-compatible wrapper**
```

**MAPIE** is an open-source Python library hosted on scikit-learn-contrib project that allows you to:

- easily **estimate conformal prediction intervals** (or prediction sets) given a degree of confidence or risk
  for single-output regression, binary and multi-class classification settings [3-9].
- easily **control risks** (such as coverage, recall or any other non-monotone risk) by estimating
  relevant prediction sets for multi-label classification and beyond [10-12].
- easily **wrap your favorite scikit-learn-compatible model** for the purposes just mentioned.

Here's a quick instantiation of MAPIE models for regression and classification problems related to uncertainty quantification
(more details in the Quickstart section):

.. code:: python

    # Uncertainty quantification for regression problem
    from mapie.regression import MapieRegressor
    mapie_regressor = MapieRegressor(estimator=regressor, method='plus', cv=5)

.. code:: python

    # Uncertainty quantification for classification problem
    from mapie.classification import MapieClassifier
    mapie_classifier = MapieClassifier(estimator=classifier, method='score', cv=5)

> .. code:: python

Reviewer: I would add multi-label. I think let's keep it to two simple use-cases. Regression and classification?

    mapie_classifier = mapie_classifier.fit(X_train, y_train)

    alpha = [0.05, 0.32]
    y_pred, y_pis = mapie_classifier.predict(X_test, alpha=alpha)

.. code:: python

    from mapie.metrics import classification_coverage_score_v2

    coverage_scores = classification_coverage_score_v2(y_test, y_pis)

.. code:: python

    from matplotlib import pyplot as plt

    x_min, x_max = np.min(X[:, 0]), np.max(X[:, 0])
    y_min, y_max = np.min(X[:, 1]), np.max(X[:, 1])
    step = 0.1

    xx, yy = np.meshgrid(np.arange(x_min, x_max, step), np.arange(y_min, y_max, step))
    X_test_mesh = np.stack([xx.ravel(), yy.ravel()], axis=1)

    y_pis = mapie_classifier.predict(X_test_mesh, alpha=alpha)[1][:,:,0]

    plt.scatter(
        X_test_mesh[:, 0], X_test_mesh[:, 1],
        c=np.ravel_multi_index(y_pis.T, (2,2,2)),
        marker='.', s=10, alpha=0.2
    )
    plt.scatter(X[:, 0], X[:, 1], c=y, cmap='tab20c')
    plt.xlabel("x1")
    plt.ylabel("x2")
    plt.title(
        f"Target and effective coverages for "
        f"alpha={alpha[0]:.2f}: ({1-alpha[0]:.3f}, {coverage_scores[0]:.3f})"
    )
    plt.show()

> .. image:: https://github.com/scikit-learn-contrib/MAPIE/raw/master/doc/images/quickstart_2.png

Reviewer: Doesn't show well.
<img width="723" alt="Screenshot 2023-09-06 at 17 42 35" src="https://github.com/scikit-learn-contrib/MAPIE/assets/63096108/08e1361e-7a06-49a3-94a4-d5233a40d3ef">
